---
layout:     post
title:      "Agent 0.9: native Flakes, multi-jobs and more"
date:       2022-03-18
summary:    The latest agent release brings major improvements to the Nix-native CI/CD service.
image:      hercules-ci.jpg
author:     roberth
tags:       hercules-ci
---

This is the first release with an [upgrade guide](https://docs.hercules-ci.com/hercules-ci/guides/upgrade-to-agent-0.9/)! I can recommend it, but if you're in a hurry, the main take-away is: C/D secrets now _require_ a `condition` field or they don't exist.

### Native Flakes support!

While Flakes are still experimental, this is the first release that goes beyond
`builtins.getFlake` and really integrates them.

If your repository already has a `flake.nix`, Hercules CI will pick up the
standard attributes out-of-the-box. Just make sure the repo is enabled in the [Hercules CI dashboard](https://hercules-ci.com/dashboard).

If you've been using a solution like `flake-compat-ci` before, you can [remove that](https://docs.hercules-ci.com/hercules-ci/guides/upgrade-to-agent-0.9/#_upgrade_from_flake_compat_ci).

I'd like to thank the upstream Nix maintainers for reviewing and accepting Hercules CI's patches to improve the stability of the Nix 2.4+ versions.

### Secrets `condition`

The continuous delivery secrets in [`secrets.json`](https://docs.hercules-ci.com/hercules-ci-agent/secrets-json/) can now be restricted based on
certain conditions, such as the repository name and git branch.

This lets you configure your C/D pipeline such that new usages of secrets follow
the four-eyes principle, reducing the risk of accidental or even intentional
internal leaks.

### Multiple jobs per commit

A new feature is the `herculesCI` special attribute. This can be placed in the
`outputs` attribute set of a `flake.nix` or in the top-level attribute set of a
`ci.nix` or `nix/ci.nix` or `default.nix` file, allowing more customization of
the CI. It must be an attribute set, or a function, which is invoked with [parameters](https://docs.hercules-ci.com/hercules-ci-agent/evaluation/#params-herculesCI)
that provide extra context.

A significant new attribute in this namespace is [`herculesCI.onPush.<name>`](https://docs.hercules-ci.com/hercules-ci-agent/evaluation/#attributes-herculesCI.onPush) for
creating multiple jobs per commit. This creates multiple evaluations per job,
with independent commit statuses.

Splitting evaluations is great for reducing latency and lets you spot completed
"subsets" in the GitHub UI when they complete early.

These jobs can also request the latest successful versions of dependency
repositories, which do not need to be in the flake lock file. This is a beta
feature.

### Simplified attribute set traversal

Hercules CI used to create builds for attributes according to the rules of the
`nix-build` command, however these are a bit unintuitive. If you forget a
`recurseIntoAttrs` call, whole subtrees won't be built, unless you use the `-A`
flag. The `herculesCI.onPush.<name>.outputs.*` attributes on the other hand follow
a simpler rule: always traverse nested attribute sets.

### Other improvements

Private repository access via `builtins.fetchGit`, `builtins.fetchTree` and Flakes
is now supported without extra configuration.

Agent 0.9 supports the latest Nix release, 2.7.0. Upgrades to Nix will
be provided in patch releases as usual.

### Upcoming Release

The next releases will improve the agent's store path handling aspects, among
other improvements.
This includes speeding up the evaluation phase, which is currently only up to par
for jobs that could be described as "incremental".

So, stay tuned!
